In the previous notebook,
you got a glimpse of some of the issues that still remain
when making predictions using matrix factorization techniques.
New users and movies are being added to our database all the time,
and matrix factorization techniques aren't going to work in making
predictions for these users and movies because they don't have any ratings yet.
SVD has two major benefits.
The first is that it gives a predicted rating for all of
our user-movie pairs even when the total number of ratings is very sparse.
Second, it gives a way to evaluate how good those ratings
actually are using traditional metrics
you've seen in regression machine learning techniques.
Despite this, there's still the problem that we're left
without predicted ratings for new users and movies.
This is a common problem known as the cold start problem.
In general, collaborative filtering methods
just don't work for making recommendations in these cases.
Instead, we'll need to use
knowledge-based or content-based recommendations like you saw in the last lesson.
In the next notebook,
you'll create a blended approach for making
recommendations using collaborative filtering with SVD,
as well as knowledge and
content-based recommendations for dealing with the cold start problem.